Updated doc pages for Docker, Kafka, Nginx ST's (#4325)
SumoLogic/sumologic-documentation: docs/send-data/opentelemetry-collector/remote-management/source-templates/kafka.md

---
id: kafka
title: Kafka Source Template
sidebar_label: Kafka
description: Learn about the Sumo Logic Kafka source template for OpenTelemetry.
---

import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<head>
  <meta name="robots" content="noindex" />
</head>

<p><a href="/docs/beta"><span className="beta">Beta</span></a></p>

<img src={useBaseUrl('img/integrations/containers-orchestration/kafka.png')} alt="icon" width="90"/> <img src={useBaseUrl('img/send-data/otel-color.svg')} alt="Thumbnail icon" width="45"/>

> Kafka source template creates an OpenTelemetry configuration that can be pushed to a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector (abbreviated as otelcol). By creating this source template and pushing the config to the appropriate OpenTelemetry agent you can ensure collection of logs and metrics of Kafka to Sumo Logic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kafka source template generates an OpenTelemetry configuration that can be sent to a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector (otelcol). By creating this source template and pushing the configuration to the appropriate OpenTelemetry agent, you can ensure the collection of Kafka logs and metrics in Sumo Logic.
```

## Fields Creation in Sumo Logic for Kafka

If not already present, the following [Fields](/docs/manage/fields/) are created as part of Source template creation.

- **`sumo.datasource`**. Fixed value of **kafka**.
- **`messaging.system`**. Fixed value of **kafka**.

> - **`deployment.environment`**. This is a user-configured field set at the time of collector installation. It identifies the environment where the kafka env resides, such as `dev`, `prod`, or `qa`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`deployment.environment`**. This is a user-configured field set at the time of collector installation. It identifies the environment where the Kafka env resides, such as `dev`, `prod`, or `qa`.
```

- **`messaging.cluster.name`**. User configured. Enter a name to uniquely identify your Kafka cluster. This cluster name will be shown in the Sumo Logic dashboards.
- **`messaging.node.name`**. Includes the value of the hostname of the machine which is being monitored.

## Prerequisites

### For metrics collection

> Kafka metrics [receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kafkametricsreceiver) collects Kafka metrics (brokers, topics, partitions, and consumer groups) from the Kafka server. This app has been tested with following Kafka versions: 2.X and 3.X

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kafka metrics [receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/kafkametricsreceiver) collects Kafka metrics (brokers, topics, partitions, and consumer groups) from the Kafka server. This app has been tested with following Kafka versions: 2.x and 3.x.
```

### For logs collection

> Configure logging in Kafka: By default, Kafka logs (`server.log` and `controller.log`) are stored in the directory called `/opt/Kafka/kafka_<VERSION>/logs`. Make a note of this logs directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, you'll configure logging in Kafka. By default, Kafka logs (`server.log` and `controller.log`) are stored in the directory called `/opt/Kafka/kafka_<VERSION>/logs`. Make a note of this logs directory.
```

Ensure that the otelcol has adequate permissions to access all log file paths. Execute the following command:

```
sudo setfacl -R -m d:u:otelcol-sumo:r-x,u:otelcol-sumo:r-x,g:otelcol-sumo:r-x <PATH_TO_LOG_FILE>
```

import LogsCollectionPrereqisites from '../../../../reuse/apps/logs-collection-prereqisites.md';

<LogsCollectionPrereqisites/>
		
import OtelWindowsLogPrereq from '../../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/log-collection-prerequisite-windows.md';

<OtelWindowsLogPrereq/>

## Source template configuration

You can follow the below steps to set a remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector and push the source template to it.

> ### Step 1: Step 1: Set up remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Step 1: Set up remotely managed OpenTelemetry collector
```

import CollectorInstallation from '../../../../reuse/apps/opentelemetry/collector-installation.md';

<CollectorInstallation/>

### Step 2: Configure the source template

> In this step, you will configure the yaml required for Kafka Collection. Below are the inputs required for configuration :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, you will configure the yaml required for Kafka collection. Below are the inputs required for configuration:
```

- **Name**. Name of the source template.
- **Description**. Description for the source template.	

> - **Server File log Path**. Enter the path to the Server log file for your Kafka instance.
> - **Controller file log path**. Enter the path to the Controller log file for your Kafka instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Server File log Path**. Enter the path to the server log file for your Kafka instance.
- **Controller file log path**. Enter the path to the controller log file for your Kafka instance.
```

- **Endpoint**. The URL of the broker endpoint (default: `localhost:9092`).

> - **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default sumo tags `_sourceCategory` with the value otel/kafka user needs to provide the value for `webengine.cluster.name`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Fields/Metadata**. You can provide any customer fields to be tagged with the data collected. By default, Sumo Logic tags `_sourceCategory` with the value otel/Kafka user needs to provide the value for `webengine.cluster.name`.
```
